feat(curriculum): add first html lab (#55479)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/recipe-page-lab/668f08ea07b99b1f4a91acab.md

---
id: 668f08ea07b99b1f4a91acab
title: Build a Recipe Page
challengeType: 14
dashedName: build-a-recipe-page
---

# --description--

> **Objective:** Build an app that is functionally similar to <a href="https://mot01.github.io/html-lab-1/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">https://recipe-page.freecodecamp.rocks</a>. Do not copy the demo project, give it your own personal style. Fulfill the user stories below and get all the test to pass to complete the lab. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Objective:** Build an app that is functionally similar to <a href="https://mot01.github.io/html-lab-1/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">https://recipe-page.freecodecamp.rocks</a>. Do not copy the demo project, give it your own personal style. Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab. 
```

Author: fixed 👍

**User Stories:**

1. You should have a `!DOCTYPE html` declaration.
1. You should have an `html` element with `lang` set to `en`.
1. You should have a `head` element containing a `title` element with the name of your recipe, and a `meta` element with a `charset` attribute set to `UTF-8`.
1. You should have a `body` element.
1. You should have an `h1` element with the name of your recipe.
1. You should have a `p` element that introduces the recipe below the `h1`.
1. You should have one `h2` element with the text `Ingredients` for the ingredients section.
1. You should have an unordered list (`ul` element) with at least four list items (`li` elements) that lists your ingredients below the first `h2` element.
1. You should have a second `h2` element with the text `Instructions` for the instructions section.
1. You should have an ordered list (`ol` element) with at least four list items that lists the recipe steps in order, below the second `h2`.

> 1. You should have one `img` element with a `src` attribute set to a valid image, and an `alt` attribute describing the image. You can use the `cookie-url` if you would like.

Reviewer: The `cookie-url` be replaced with a cdn url right? Otherwise it is a bit confusing.

Author: yes

Author: fixed 👍 I have a PR to add a generic image on the CDN repo and used that URL.

# --hints--

Your recipe page should have a `!DOCTYPE html` declaration.

```js
assert.match(code, /<!DOCTYPE html>/i);
```

You should have an `html` element with `lang` set to `en`.

```js
assert.match(code, /<html\s+lang\s*=\s*('|")en\1\s*>[\s\S]*<\/\s*html\s*>/gi);
```

You should have a `head` element within the `html` element.

```js
assert.match(code, /<html[\s\S]*>[\s\S]*<\s*head\s*>[\s\S]*<\/\s*head\s*>[\s\S]*<\/\s*html\s*>/i);
```

You should have `title` element within your `head` element.

```js
assert.match(code, /<\s*head\s*>[\s\S]*<\s*title\s*>[\s\S]*<\/\s*title\s*>[\s\S]*<\/\s*head\s*>/i);
```

Your `title` element should have your recipe title.

```js
assert.isAbove(document.querySelector('title')?.innerText.trim().length, 0);
```

You should have a `meta` element within your `head` element.

```js
assert.match(code, /<\s*head\s*>[\s\S]*<\s*meta[\s\S]*>[\s\S]*<\/\s*head\s*>/i);
```

Your `meta` element should have its `charset` attribute set to `UTF-8`.

```js
assert.match(code, /<\s*meta[\s\S]+?charset\s*=\s*('|")UTF-8\1/i);
```

> You should have a `body` element within your `html` element.

Reviewer 2: Since this is the first lab, I would check that the body is in the right place. Now, you can pass the test even if you put the body inside the head.

Author: fixed 👍

```js
assert(code.match(/<\s*html[\s\S]*>[\s\S]*<\s*body\s*>[\s\S]*<\/\s*body\s*>[\s\S]*<\/\s*html\s*>/i));
```

> Your first should have an `h1` element with the name of your recipe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your first element inside the `body` should be an `h1` element with the name of your recipe.
```
Not sure what you wanted to say here.

Author: fixed 👍

```js
assert.isAbove(document.querySelector('h1')?.innerText.length, 0)
```

> You should only have one `h1` element

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should only have one `h1` element.
```

Author: fixed 👍

```

You should have an unordered list element below your first `h2` element.

```js
assert($('ul')[0].previousElementSibling.tagName === 'H2');
```

You should have at least four list item elements in your unordered list with the ingredients.

```js
const els = document.querySelectorAll('ul > li');
assert.isAbove(els.length, 3);
els.forEach(el => assert.isAbove(el.innerText.trim().length, 0))
```

Your second `h2` element should have the text `Instructions`.

```js
assert.equal(document.querySelectorAll('h2')[1]?.innerText, 'Instructions');
```

You should have an ordered list element below your second `h2` element.

```js
assert($('ol')[0].previousElementSibling.tagName === 'H2');
```

You should have at least four list item elements in your ordered list with the instructions.

```js
const els = document.querySelectorAll('ol > li');
assert.isAbove(els.length, 3);
els.forEach(el => assert.isAbove(el.innerText.trim().length, 0))
```

You should have at least one `img` element.

```js
assert.exists($('img')[0]);
```

All your `img` elements should have a valid `src` attribute and value.

```js
assert.isAbove($('img')[0].src.length, 0);
```

> All your `img` elements should have an `alt` attribute and describing the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All your `img` elements should have an `alt` attribute to describe the image.
```

Author: fixed 👍
